# Rails_Interview_Questions
Ruby on Rails Interview Questions


## Difference between Gemfile and Gemfile.lock

Gemfile and Gemfile.lock

Gemfile:

	•	The Gemfile is a file used by Bundler in Ruby projects to manage gem dependencies.
	•	It lists the gems required for the application, specifying versions or version constraints.
	•	It allows specifying groups of gems (e.g., :development, :test) to be used in different environments.

Gemfile.lock:

	•	The Gemfile.lock is generated by Bundler to record the exact versions of all gems and their dependencies.
	•	It ensures that the same versions of gems are used when the application is deployed or shared.
	•	This file is crucial for consistent environments across different setups (development, testing, production).

 ## Difference Between has_many :through and has_and_belongs_to_many

has_many :through:

	•	Used to set up a many-to-many connection with another model through a third model (a join model).
	•	Allows for more flexibility as the join model can have additional attributes and validations.
	•	Example:

 ```ruby
class Author < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :authorships
  has_many :books, through: :authorships
end

class Authorship < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :author
  belongs_to :book
end

class Book < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :authorships
  has_many :authors, through: :authorships
end
```

has_and_belongs_to_many (HABTM):
	•	Used to set up a many-to-many connection directly without a join model.
	•	Simpler to set up but lacks the flexibility of adding additional attributes or validations to the join table.
	•	Example:

 ```ruby
class Author < ApplicationRecord
  has_and_belongs_to_many :books
end

class Book < ApplicationRecord
  has_and_belongs_to_many :authors
end
```
